Article 4332 of alt.sys.pdp10:
Path: news3.best.com!news1.best.com!feed1.news.rcn.net!rcn!cpk-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!news.news.gtei.net!newshub.northeast.verio.net!newsfeed.nyu.edu!news.columbia.edu!merhaba!rh120
From: rh120@merhaba.cc.columbia.edu (Ronda Hauben)
Newsgroups: alt.sys.pdp10,alt.folklore.computers
Subject: Re: ARPAnet pioneer Jon Postel died 1998 Oct 16
Followup-To: alt.sys.pdp10,alt.folklore.computers
Date: 27 Oct 1998 15:07:19 GMT
Organization: Columbia University
Lines: 244
Message-ID: <714nj7$91u$4@apakabar.cc.columbia.edu>
References: <70goj9$ufj$1@nntpd.lkg.dec.com> <70hu6b$euh$1@nntpd.lkg.dec.com> <70ikim$c50@sifon.cc.mcgill.ca>
Reply-To: rh120@columbia.edu
NNTP-Posting-Host: merhaba.cc.columbia.edu
X-Newsreader: TIN [version 1.2 PL2]
Xref: news3.best.com alt.sys.pdp10:4332 alt.folklore.computers:116425

Louis RAPHAEL (raphael@cs.mcgill.ca) wrote:
: In alt.folklore.computers Eric Werme - replace nospam with 
: werme <nospam@zk3.dec.com> wrote:
: : After posting the following to alt.sys.pdp10, I read that Jon Postel,
: : ARPAnet pioneer and keeper of the Numbers, died last Friday.  I may have
: : met Jon briefly at USC-ISI in 1974. I did exchange some Email with him
: : over FTP.  Even then, it was clear that Jon was one of the vital people
: : in the ARPAnet community.

(...)

: I'm truly saddened to hear this. Although I didn't know Jon
: personally, I have great respect for what he did for the net, and am
: saddened that we will now be without him, at the moment when he would
: have been most needed[1].

: Louis

: [1] The domain name transition... he was one of the most powerful
: people on "our side." This will affect how the internet turns out, if
: you ask me. What an untimely death.

I spoke with Jon in Geneva this past summer about the fact that
users were being left out of the new private corporation that was being 
formed to take over the domain names, IP numbers, root server system,
etc. and he told me to bring what I was saying to the IFWP discussion
that was going to happen in following couple of days. That was 
useless. But it then was particularly appalling to see the WSJ 
article on Thursday, Oct. 22 which in the name of a eulogy
for Jon Postel was something very different.

Following is something that was posted on Usenet about the WSJ
article and I followed it with some of my comments on the article:

Mentifex (mentifex@scn.org) wrote:

: Meanwhile, did everybody see the blatant exploitation of the death
: of Jonathan Postel (The Wall Street Journal editorial page A22) in
: the form of a 22.oct.1998 article by K. N. Cukier, a senior editor
: of Communications Week International?  Well, George, or should you
: be called one of the "new Internet pipsqueaks" as Cukier calls us?
: Your Doublethink Duckspeak has lived beyond 1984 in the WSJ, where
: Mr. Cukier wrote how lucky Jonathan Postel is to have died and not
: have seen how "a handful of small-town Internet entrepreneurs snip-
: ing from their e-mail soapboxes have been calling on the U.S. gov-
: ernment to exert control over the new IANA."  The still warm body
: of Jonathan Postel is exploited:  "His vision was of a communica-
: tions network beyond the control of government."  Please!  Mr. 2X
: double-talk Cukier, the only avenue of control by ALL Netizens is
: demo-(that's Greek for PEOPLE, Mr. Cukier)cratic government.  You
: end "The Internet Loses Its Head" by mouthing, "It's important to
: get the new institution up and running, and make sure governments
: stay out."  Translated out of Doublespeak:  Down with the people!

Good to see your account of this piece foul propaganda in 
the name of a eulogy for Jon Postel published in the WSJ on Thursday,
October 22, 1998.

It was full of lots of other falsifications as well.

It was interesting that the WSJ hadn't carried any account of the 
DNS giveaway but suddenly puts on its editorial page this piece of 
clear propaganda.

For example:

WSJ article falsification:

"Indeed, the Internet was created by privately owned data networks
that voluntarily agreed to interconnect for mutual benefit,
and recognized the need for a central authority to make uncomfortable
yet binding decisions."

Internet history:

The Internet was created as a result of government funded and directed
computer science research and development by the U.S. government and 
other governments around the world who supported the linking up of
the government or university developed networks in their countries.

In the process there were cooperative procedures like the Requests
for Comment (RFC's) and the IETF and Usenet newsgroups and 
ARPANET and later Internet mailing lists that developed to make
possible collaborative processes to help solve many of the problems
that developed so people could work together and help each other
to use and spread the Internet.

This cooperation was supported by an Acceptible Use Policy where
the networks could be used reciprocally by different those in different
nations around the world as long as certain rules were followed and 
the networks were open to the university or education community in 
the diverse countries. 

This is what has made it possible to have an international network.

One of the first points of the Acceptible Use Policy (the AUP) that
governed the early U.S. backbone to the Internet (the NSFNET) was:

"Communication with foreign reseachers and educators in connection
with research or instruction, as long as any network that the
foreign user employs for such communication provides reciprocal
access to U.S. researchers and educators." (See chapter 12
in "Netizens")

WSJ article falsification:

"If governments get to plunge their flagpoles into cyberspace,
his (Postel's) vision risks being destroyed. The Internet moves
too fast for governments to control. And since it is a weave of
private international networks, it's not clear what government
institution has legitimacy to determine Internet policies such
as adding new domain domain names--the `.com' or `org' suffixes
of many of today's Internet addresses. Why not a `.med' for
accredited medical institutions, for examle? Such questions are
much better left for industry itself to decide."

Internet history:

Government have been a crucial part of creating the Internet,
or as this WSJ propagandist calls it, cyberspace.

And Jon Postel worked for the U.S. government under a contract
and so to use him as a way to attack governments being involved
in the Internet is a gross misrepresentation.

The U.S. government and other governments played a *good* role,
not a bad role, in the development of the Internet. 

The role the U.S. government played, was *not* one of control, 
but of support for the networking community, and for cooperative
and collaborative processes that made it possible to develop
and maintain the Internet. 

There are Internet processes and procedures for deciding what 
should happen such as the IETF and Usenet newsgroups and Internet
mailing lists where problems of deciding whether or not to add
new domain names can be discussed to figure out what it makes
sense to do. However, instead of the U.S. government and 
other governments supporting the use of such procedures, 
they are being pressured by big corporate entities to turn
over the ownership and control of decisions like these
and of assets like IP numbers and domain names to private
corporations under the guise of privatizing these functions.

Cukier and the WSJ are campaigning for this great giveaway 
of Internet assets and policy making power to "industry" by 
this article.

WSJ article falsification:

 "Or so reasons-believe it or not- Ira Magaziner, the failed health-
care commissar reborn as cyberpunk. Mr. Magaziner spearheaded an
international campaign to forge consensus among governments around
the world to defer to the authority of a new, private-sector-based
IANA. And when key parties in the process of building the new 
institution failed to come to terms, he persuaded them to continue
discussions, knowing the consequences would otherwise be an
open door for Congress or Geneva buraucrats to storm through."

Internet recent history:

Where and how this whole privatization process of essential
Internet functions was conceived and begun needs to be unraveled,
but advisors to the U.S. government with interests in big
corporate entities are pressuring for this privatization
similar to how they pressured for the privatization of the 
NSFNET backbone to the Internet.

Magaziner has been traveling around the world and encouraging
other nations to go along with the privatization.

He has been offering other nations seats on the board, despite
the fact that this is to be a supposed "private corporation."

Thus we are to have governments represented but under no obligations
to be accountable for this representation.

This is a new model that is being crafted under the advice of 
some of the Internet guru's from the Internet society and other
such institutions of how to give away Internet assets and 
policy making processes to the private sector.

Congress, according to the WSJ propaganda, should stay out.

But it is good to have Congress intervene and all sectors
of the U.S. govt intervene. The Office of Inspector General
of the NSF (who traditionally functioned under the authority of
Congress) issued a report on this all saying that this
would create a concentration of power that was very dangerous
and probably contrary to U.S. law. 

And the report said that government cannot transfer policy making
power to private entities.

The U.S. people and people around the world need to know
what is happening and to have some way to intervene.

There needs to be broad public discussion, *not* silence and 
propaganda press releases.


WSJ article falsification:

 "All this reached a crescendo when Postel was hospitalized last
week for heart problems. So close to realization, his vision may
become the first casualty of the revolution he helped unleash: A
form of Internet self governance founded on the authority of the 
Internet itself--the companies that invest in it and the individuals
who benefit from it. It's imoprtant to get the new institution up
and running, and make sure governments stay out."

Whose Vision of the future?

The Internet and Usenet have been created as a users networks,
where the users have created the content and the software
that has made them possible. (See testimony submitted to 
Congress http://www.columbia.edu/~rh120/other/testimony_107.txt)

And there has been a good role played by the U.S. government
and governments around the world to support those who have
worked to create and develop the Internet. 

Also much taxpayer money of people in the U.S. and elsewhere
around the world has helped to fund the networks that are
now make the Internet a worldwide network of networks.

But this WSJ brand of supposed "Internet self governance" 
is to replace the users and the support by government
for the cooperative processes and collaborative practices
with the "companies that invest" (i.e. reap the windfall of 
the greatest giveaway in the history of the world), and
where users are reduced to "individuals who benefit from"
i.e. companies making profit off of them, is only the vision
of a very narrow set of interests who have no understanding
of nor concern for the Internet or the global communication
that it makes possible.

Ronda
ronda@panix.com

                  Netizens: On the History and Impact
                    of Usenet and the Internet
                http://www.columbia.edu/~hauben/netbook
                also in print edition ISBN 0-8186-7706-6


Article 4333 of alt.sys.pdp10:
Path: news3.best.com!news1.best.com!nntprelay.mathworks.com!feeder.qis.net!newsfeed.xcom.net!cam-news-hub1.bbnplanet.com!cam-news-feed3.bbnplanet.com!news.gtei.net!new-news.cc.brandeis.edu!amber.cs.brandeis.edu!dkw
From: dkw@cs.brandeis.edu (David Wittenberg)
Newsgroups: alt.sys.pdp10,alt.folklore.computers
Subject: Re: ARPAnet pioneer Jon Postel died 1998 Oct 16
Date: 29 Oct 1998 13:38:09 GMT
Organization: Brandeis University Computer Science
Lines: 18
Message-ID: <719r41$sk8$1@new-news.cc.brandeis.edu>
References: <70goj9$ufj$1@nntpd.lkg.dec.com> <70hu6b$euh$1@nntpd.lkg.dec.com> <70ikim$c50@sifon.cc.mcgill.ca> <714nj7$91u$4@apakabar.cc.columbia.edu>
NNTP-Posting-Host: amber.cs.brandeis.edu
X-newsreader: xrn 8.02
Xref: news3.best.com alt.sys.pdp10:4333 alt.folklore.computers:116540

In article <714nj7$91u$4@apakabar.cc.columbia.edu>, rh120@merhaba.cc.columbia.edu (Ronda Hauben) writes:



> .... But it then was particularly appalling to see the WSJ 
>article on Thursday, Oct. 22 which in the name of a eulogy
>for Jon Postel was something very different.

Remember that the Wall Street Journal editorial page (on which the
Postel article appeared) is essentially independent of the rest of
the newspaper.  The editorial page is described by its friends as
being to the right of Atilla the Hun, and by its enemies as
"the facist page".  It doesn't surprise me to see them completely
at a loss to understand the way IETF and IANA worked.

-- 
--David Wittenberg
dkw@cs.brandeis.edu


